# Artipixoids!: The Concept (draft)

> 2D body, 2D brain,  
> 2D pleasure, 2D pain.

**Artipixoids!** is half generative art, half artificial life project with a focus on genetic cellular automata obeying energy conservation principle. Started in the end of 2014, it has undergone several major modifications, and is still in development. But now is the right time to share basic concepts underlying all previous modifications, so others could use it to build their own wonderful worlds. 

## Main goals

#### 1. Artistic

1.1. We are going to generate the beautiful objects of abstract digital arts, even at the cost of computational resources. 

1.2. The objects of arts are: static images, videos, sounds, 3D models, etc.

1.3. We will consider the object as Artipixoid if and only if:

- the object is generated by CA fulfilling all the items from Basic Rules section (thus, inherited from it);
- the object's generative algorithm is not using anything but CA states as input;
- the object's generative algorithm is not based on the objects of arts, other than Artipixoids (eg. deep art based on Van Gogh paintings or photos doesn't count, but deep art based on other Artipixoids is OK).

1.4 Artipixoids that has no artistic value are bad and a subject to genocide. 

1.5 Yet, if at least one person found them beautiful, we let them live.

#### 2. Scientific

2.1. We are going to make experiments to test the hypothesis that a life can self-organize in artificial (digital) environment from a completely random initial state.

2.2. The *properties of life*, as we see it, are following.

2.2.1. *Integrity*: every lifeform should be distinct from its local environment, and should preserve its individuality during the lifespan.

2.2.2. *Sustainability*: a lifeform should be able to self-repair in case of damage, and to maintain the physical manifestation (body) for a long enough period of time.

2.2.3. *Reproductivity*: a lifeform should be able to replicate, creating new individuals with small enough differences to consider them inexact copy.

2.2.4. *Novelty*: new lifeforms should arise out of the old ones, and they should act more effectively than the old ones. 

2.2.5. *Diversity*: there should be enough different lifeforms to put them in groups called 'species'.

2.2.6. *Complementarity*: different species should learn to live in symbiosis and help each other to survive and improve, forming stable ecosystems.

2.2.7. *Adaptability*: species should learn to evolve in a way they are constantly adapting to aggressive environmental changes.

2.3. The *properties of artificial environment*, as we see it, are following.

2.3.1. *Discreteness*: the space and time of our environment should be discrete. So, space should consist of indivisible quanta, and their updates should occur in separate timesteps synchronously. In addition, any property of spatial quanta should take integer values only. This requirements will allow us to run the simulation of our environment on modern digital computational systems.

2.3.2. *Determinancy*: a global state of the environment at the timestep N should lead to one and only one global state at the timestep N + 1. This will give us ensurance of the exactly same outcome given the same initial state for a particular experiment.

2.3.3. *Locality*: each quantum should have the same number and the same topology of its neighbors, and quantum's state should be updated using nothing more than the states of its neighbors. This will allow us to exploit the massively parallel computations, thus greatly speeding up the simulation.

2.3.4. *Insularity*: each quantum should have an energy level, and sum of all quanta's energy levels should be a constant value. Energy conservation will make us sure, that none of our experiments will lead neither to the extinction nor to the explosion of 'matter'.

2.3.5. *Isotropy*: all possible reflections of quantum's neighborhood at the timestep N should lead to the same quantum's state at timestep N + 1. This will allow energy to spread in all possible directions uniformly. 

2.3.6. *Polymorhism*. [TODO]

2.3.7. *Heterogeneity*. [TODO]

2.3.8. *Mutability*. [TODO]

2.3.9. *Magnetism*. [TODO]

#### 3. Divine

(TODO)

#### 4. Social

(TODO)

#### 5. Other

(TODO)


## Basic Rules

(TODO)




