---
title: "In Anticipation Of Xentica 0.2"
date:   2019-05-14 21:46:00 +0300
categories:
  - announcements
tags:
  - xentica
  - announcements
---

Greetings from every cell of our hearts! [**Xentica**][1] (formerly
HECATE) has anniversary today: 2 years since the [first actual code
committed][2]. And we are celebrating it with the [500th commit][3] to
the master branch. Especially proud that it deals with dimensionality,
one of the main Xentica features.

So, what is the status for the moment? The bad news first. We missed
the deadline on May 5. We excluded almost all secondary features from
0.2, in favor of the main goal accomplished. But the good news, we are
very close to the actual release. And even without secondary goals, it
looks much more powerful than the last version. It has
meta-parameters, it has per-cell RNG, genetics, lots of helpers, and
many bugs fixed. That's all we need to build EvoLife model and beyond
it.

Current [EvoLife/Xentica model][4] runs smoothly, but unfortunately, it
shows a bit different behavior from the legacy version. The reasons
are unknown, we'll investigate it further. But if the investigation
will take too long, we will skip it for the next bugfix
version. StochasticCorrector / MSE model also left for the future
version. We still need to finish tests, docs, and other maintenance
stuff. Hopefully, you can expect 0.2 release somewhere in late May.

*Stay connected,<br />
Xentica/Moire Team*

[1]: https://github.com/a5kin/xentica
[2]: https://github.com/a5kin/xentica/commit/fdf8911a46e8d0854d4eca5732fa8a60504fd43b
[3]: https://github.com/a5kin/xentica/commit/f80bf7b7caea96e625e3975666768042a465ba15
[4]: https://github.com/a5kin/xentica/blob/master/examples/evolife.py
